# Code Formatting Guidelines #

The overarching goal of these guidelines is to balance the source code's **consistency**, **readability/clarity**, and **simplicity/brevity**. The reader must understand the purpose and type of each identifier in the source code without having to refer to, or rely on its complete declaration.

There are minor differences between Microsoft's standards, and Monstronauts' standards, so unless otherwise noted below, formatting should follow the [Microsoft C# Coding Conventions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/inside-a-program/coding-conventions).

## Table of Contents
- [Static Members](#static-members)
- [Parentheses](#parentheses)
- [Spacing](#spacing)
  + [Indentation](#indentation)
  + [Vertical Spacing](#vertical-spacing)
- [Braces (Curly Brackets)](#braces--curly-brackets)
- [Declarations](#declarations)
  + [Access Level Modifiers](#access-level-modifiers)
  + [Implicitly Typed Local Variables](#implicitly-typed-local-variables)
- [Use of This](#use-of-this)
- [Comments](#comments)
- [Regions](#regions)
- [Unused Code](#unused-code)

## Static Members

**✓ DO** call static members by using the class name so that it is clear when you are using static members VS member properties.

Example:
```csharp
// Good
int health = Hero.DefaultHealth;

// Bad (is this a static variable, or a property?)
int health = DefaultHealth;
```

## Parentheses

**✓ DO** use parentheses to make clauses in an expression apparent even if the sequence of operators would work the same with or without the groupings.

## Spacing

### Indentation

**✓ DO** use spaces, and not tabs for indentation.

**✓ DO** use 2 character spaces, instead of the default 4.

**✓ DO** add exactly one blank line between method definitions and property definitions.

### Vertical Spacing

**✓ DO** write only one statement per line.

**✓ DO** use at most exactly one blank line between declarations, method definitions, and property definitions. Whitespace within methods should separate functionality.

## Braces (Curly Brackets)

**✓ DO** give all braces their own line.

**✓ DO** vertically align curly braces.

Example:
```csharp
class Program
{
  void Start()
  {
    if (true)
    {

    }
    else
    {

    }

    for (int i = 0; i < 10; ++i)
    {

    }
  }
}
```

**✓ DO** enclose even single line conditional statements in braces to avoid errors when a different team member adds to the code.

Example:
```csharp
// Good
if (i = 0)
{
  DoSomething();
}

// Bad
if (i == 0)
  DoSomething();

// Bad Bad
if (i == 0) DoSomething();
```

## Declarations

**✓ DO** write only one declaration per line.

**✓ DO** declare all member variables at the top of a class, with static variables at the very top.

### Access Level Modifiers

**✓ DO** declare `public`, `protected`, and `internal` access level modifiers for classes, methods, and member variables. Leave out the access modifier for `private` members.

Example:
```csharp
public class Hero
{
  public string alias;
  protected string realName;
  string _secretIdentity;
}
```

### Implicitly Typed Local Variables

**✓ DO** use implicit type `var` for local variable declarations when (A) the type of the variable is obvious from the right side of the assignment, and (B) the type of the variable is quite long (especially for generics).

**X DO NOT** use implicit type `var` for variables if you would need intellisense or tooltips to determine the type later on.

**X DO NOT** use implicit type `var` for primitive types such as  `int`, `string`, `double`, etc.

**X DO NOT** rely on the variable name to specify the type of the variable. It might not be correct.

Example:
```csharp
// Good
string cellKey = "Good";
var cells = new Dictionary<string, Cell>();
var lambdaExpression = (sender, e) => 
{
  Print(e.ErrorMessage);
};
Cell cell = GetCell(cellKey);
Cell cell = cells[cellKey];

// Bad
var cellKey = "Bad";
var cell = GetCell(cellKey);
var cell = cells[cellKey];
```

## Use of This

**X AVOID** using `this` to qualify members in methods. Use it only when required by the compiler to disambiguate variables.

## Comments

**✓ DO** comment your code and leave bread crumbs for your future self and other developers.

**✓ DO** place comments on a separate line, and not inline at the end of a line of code.

**✓ DO** begin comments with an uppercase letter.

**✓ DO** end complete sentences with a period.

**✓ DO** use English for comments.

**✓ DO** insert one space between the comment delimiter `//` and the comment text.

**✓ DO** use XML style comments for method, class, struct, and interface declarations. Use `///` to automatically generate a template. You do not need to use all the tags generated by the template, but at least use the `<summary>` tag.

**X DO NOT** write block comments that start with `/**` and end with `**/`. Use one `//` delimiter per line instead.

**X DO NOT** create formatted blocks of asterisks around comments.

**X DO NOT** write nonsensical comments.

## Regions

**✓ DO** group code together by functionality into blocks using the `#region` and `#endregion` directives.

## Unused Code

**✓ DO** remove or comment out all unused code and imports.

**✓ CONSIDER** a deprecation process before removing code used by other team members. 

## Where To Next?
- [Show All Topics](README.md)
- [Naming Guidelines](NAMING.md) 
- [Formatting Guidelines](#code-formatting-guidelines) (You Are Here)
- [Design Guidelines](DESIGN.md)
- [Learning Resources](RESOURCES.md)